docs: ScrapeConfig proposal (#5279)
prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator: Documentation/proposals/202212-scrape-config.md

# ScrapeConfig CRD

* Owners:
  * [xiu](https://github.com/xiu)
* Related Tickets:
  * [#2787](https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/issues/2787)
  * [#3447](https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/issues/3447)
* Other docs:
  * n/a

This document aims at creating a lower level `ScrapeConfig` Custom Resource Definition that defines additional scrape configurations the Kubernetes way.

> # Why

Reviewer: I think that it'd be helpful if you provide more details about your specific use case @xiu 
#2787 was initially about Kubernetes node service discovery which could be mentioned here too. I'll go through the existing issues to see if other use cases are worth mentioning.

Author: I've added three use cases to the document.

* This proposal doesn't aim at covering all the fields in [`<scrape_config>`](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/#scrape_config). Specifically, no service discovery other than `static_configs` or `file_sd_configs` should be implemented at first.
* refactoring of the other CRDs is not in scope for the first version

# How

As described by [@aulig in #2787](https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/issues/2787#issuecomment-559776221), we will create a new `ScrapeConfig` CRD, this config will act the same as the other CRDs and append scrape configurations to the configuration. `ScrapeConfig` will allow for any scraping configuration, while the other CRDs provide sane defaults. This will allow for isolated testing of the new `ScrapeConfig` CRD.

```mermaid
graph TD;
    ServiceMonitor-->prometheusConfig
    PodMonitor-->prometheusConfig
    ScrapeConfig-->prometheusConfig
    prometheusConfig
```

Using a pseudo custom resource definition, we should have the following:

```yaml
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: ScrapeConfig
metadata:
  name: my-scrape-config
  namespace: system-monitoring
  labels:
    test: value

> spec:

Reviewer: I wonder if we shouldn't also include HTTP SD config from the start. It could be useful to experiment with target sharding techniques such as the OpenTelemetry collector's [target allocator](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-operator#target-allocator).

Author: We can, it shouldn't be too hard and is generic enough to help a lot of people from the start. I would limit to those (static/file/http) on the first step though and add other SDs as we go. This should be decoupled from the refactoring effort. Thoughts?

Author: I've added httpSDConfig to the list

Author: https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/pull/5279/files#diff-a6321575a64799dcf97cfe7e62ce050189f50e6cd33fc6cc495f118f6cfefcddR143-R144

  staticConfigs:
    - <StaticConfig>[] # new resource
  fileSDConfigs:
    - <fileSDConfig>[] # new resource
  relabelConfigs:
    - <RelabelConfig>[] # https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/blob/e4e27052f57040f073c6c1e4aedaecaaec77d170/pkg/apis/monitoring/v1/types.go#L1150
  metricsPath: /metrics
```

with `StaticConfig` being:

```yaml
targets:
  - target:9100
labels:
  labelA: placeholder
```

and `fileSDConfig`:

```yaml
files:
  - <SecretOrConfigMap>[] # https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/blob/e4e27052f57040f073c6c1e4aedaecaaec77d170/pkg/apis/monitoring/v1/types.go#L1644
refresh_interval: 5m
```

> Once the CRD is released, we will start refactoring the other CRDs. Since `ScrapeConfig` will allow for any configuration, it can also generate scrape configuration for the other CRDs.

Reviewer: we would need support for kubernetes SD config too?

Author: See https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/pull/5279#discussion_r1089306707. I think this should come but maybe not as part of the first version. Once we have the foundation, we can onboard the other CRDs (and will need to as we'll transition the ServiceMonitor/Probe logic to it).

* Consolidate the scrape configuration generation logic in a central point for other resources to use

## Audience

* Users who serve Prometheus as a service and want to have their customers autonomous in defining scrape configs
* Users who want to manage scrape configs the same way as for services running within the Kubernetes cluster
* Users who want a supported Kubernetes way of scraping targets outside the Kubernetes cluster

# Non-Goals

* This proposal doesn't aim at covering all the fields in
  [`<scrape_config>`](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/#scrape_config).
  Specifically, no service discovery other than `static_configs` or `file_sd_configs` should be implemented at first.
* Refactoring of the other CRDs is not in scope for the first version

# How

As described by
[@aulig in #2787](https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/issues/2787#issuecomment-559776221), we
will create a new `ScrapeConfig` CRD, this config will act the same as the other CRDs and append scrape configurations
to the configuration. `ScrapeConfig` will allow for any scraping configuration, while the other CRDs provide sane

> defaults. This will allow for isolated testing of the new `ScrapeConfig` CRD.

Author: @ArthurSens I would image the best place to add that information is here. Currently we say that the `ScrapeConfig` will act the same as the others and append scrape configurations to the configuration. Should I rephrase to the following?
> [...] we will create a new `ScrapeConfig` CRD, this new CRD will act the same as the other CRDs and append scrape configurations to the configuration. Usage of `ScrapeConfig` doesn't exclude the use of the other CRDs, they are not mutually exclusive.

the configuration. Usage of ScrapeConfig doesn't exclude the use of the other CRDs, they are not mutually exclusive.
`ScrapeConfig` will allow for any scraping configuration, while the other CRDs provide sane defaults. This will allow
for isolated testing of the new `ScrapeConfig` CRD.

```mermaid
graph TD;
ServiceMonitor --> prometheusConfig
PodMonitor --> prometheusConfig
ScrapeConfig --> prometheusConfig
prometheusConfig
```

Using a pseudo custom resource definition, we should have the following:

```yaml
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: ScrapeConfig
metadata:
  name: my-scrape-config
  namespace: system-monitoring
  labels:
    test: value
spec:
  staticConfigs:
    - <StaticConfig>[] # new resource
  fileSDConfigs:
    - <fileSDConfig>[] # new resource
  httpSDConfigs:
    - <httpSDConfig>[] # new resource
  relabelConfigs:
    - <RelabelConfig>[] # https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/blob/e4e27052f57040f073c6c1e4aedaecaaec77d170/pkg/apis/monitoring/v1/types.go#L1150
  metricsPath: /metrics
```

with the following new resources:

* `staticConfig`

```yaml
targets:
  - target:9100
labels:
  labelA: placeholder
```

> * `fileSDConfig`:

Reviewer: After giving it more thoughts, I'm wondering if file SD configuration is really needed and if it brings enough value compared to static targets? The user experience with file SD would be:
* create the configmaps/secrets for targets
* create the scrape config object
* update the configmaps/secrets
With the static config, the user has to deal only with the scrape config object which feels less burden and more idiomatic. There's also the challenge of syncing the user's secrets/configmaps to an operator-owned secret as well as avoiding the redeployment of Prometheus on secret addition/removal (similar to #5085). Finally it's less obvious how the operator reports that the user's secret/configmap is invalid.

From a classic Prometheus user's standpoint, file SD is interesting because compared to static config, Prometheus can pick up changes almost immediately. But in the operator's case, it's more an implementation detail and it might be possible to "translate" static targets into a file SD configuration?

Reviewer 2: I was also wondering about this. @xiu afair you mentioned that you have a use case for file sd with the operator, could you share more?

Author: Sure thing. I added file_sd as I'm mostly interested in this one. Our usecase is that we have a job pulling discovery data from internal systems and landing it in a configmap regularly like:
```json
[
  {
    "labels": {
      "rack": "1",
      "cluster": "clusterA",
      "type": "typeA",
      "team": "teamB"
    },
    "targets": [
      "host1.fqdn"
    ]
  },
  {
    "labels": {
      "rack": "2",
      "cluster": "clusterB",
      "type": "typeB",
      "team": "teamB"
    },
    "targets": [
      "host2.fqdn"
    ]
  }
]
```

With this configmap mounted in Prometheus, we can then create scraping rules like this, that we use `additionalScrapeConfigs` for:
```yaml
- file_sd_configs:
  - files:
    - ../configmaps/inventory/file.json
  job_name: my_job
  relabel_configs:
    - action: keep
      regex: typeA
      source_labels:
      - type
    - regex: (.*)
      replacement: ${1}:9100
      source_labels:
      - __address__
      target_label: __address__
  static_configs: []
```

The UX is not great of course, and we'll be working at revamping that, but it is the system we have today.

In general though, I would imagine `ScrapeConfig` to stick with Prometheus' primitives and have other higher level CRDs (`ServiceMonitor`/`PodMonitor`) be more opinionated. I'm happy to jump on a call tomorrow to describe my usecase in more details if needed.

Reviewer 2: I think that's a valid use-case and others might have a similar one. However, it somehow feels like rebranded `additionalScrapeConfigs` :thinking: Do we want to also have validation on files listed in a ConfigMap?

There is also slight implementation detail we need to remember in this particular case - since ConfigMaps/Secrets are double linked when mounting in a container, we cannot rely on Prometheus just picking up newly changed files from those ConfigMap/Secrets. This means either config-reloader sidecar would need to be updated every time a new `file_sd_config` is added (which results in prometheus redeploy) or the operator would need to somehow track changes in those ConfigMaps (annotation with a checksum?) or some other way of ensuring this. All this means we are adding quite a ton of complexity to the initial implementation and without this particular feature I don't think file_sd would be complete.

Author: > However, it somehow feels like rebranded additionalScrapeConfigs 🤔
It's one of the goals imo, provide Kubernetes primitives rather than a centralized `additionalScrapeConfigs`.

> Do we want to also have validation on files listed in a ConfigMap?
I think checking that the file exist would already be good. I wouldn't consider validation of the content as needed, at least in the first version. Worst case, we won't discover scrape targets.

> There is also slight implementation detail we need to remember in this particular case - since ConfigMaps/Secrets are double linked when mounting in a container, we cannot rely on Prometheus just picking up newly changed files from those ConfigMap/Secrets.
I'm not sure I get this one though I'm far from the most knowledgeable on the code base 😄 Currently we use one of these configmaps without any issue and it gets updated regularly. Prometheus has [`refresh_interval` on `file_sd_configs`](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/#file_sd_config) set to 5m by default to reload the file. Am I missing something?

Reviewer 2: All good and thank you for the explanation. I may have overthinked it :)

Reviewer: > I think checking that the file exist would already be good. I wouldn't consider validation of the content as needed, at least in the first version. Worst case, we won't discover scrape targets.

If someone crafts an invalid file SD config and the operator passes it as-is to Prometheus, it's still a sub-par experience IMHO.

The area I'm not clear about is how the operator will synthesize the file SD configs from all the ScrapeConfigs and how they will be passed down to the statefulset. I'll imagine that the operator will copy the secret/configmap data to a common secret so it avoids redeploying the pods everytime a ScrapeConfig is added/removed/updated? We also have to deal deal with the secret's limit size (1MiB). So I'd like to see a bit more details in the proposal :)

Author: > If someone crafts an invalid file SD config and the operator passes it as-is to Prometheus, it's still a sub-par experience IMHO.

Absolutely, this can come as we iterate. I wouldn't put this as part of the first version, the benefits of the CRD is still very high compared to the current solution.

> The area I'm not clear about is how the operator will synthesize the file SD configs from all the ScrapeConfigs and how they will be passed down to the statefulset. I'll imagine that the operator will copy the secret/configmap data to a common secret so it avoids redeploying the pods everytime a ScrapeConfig is added/removed/updated? We also have to deal deal with the secret's limit size (1MiB). So I'd like to see a bit more details in the proposal :)

The same way we do for `ServiceMonitor`, each `ScrapeConfig` will be passed down to the configuration. The `ScrapeConfig` will not manipulate a configmap nor a secret, the filepath will be a string and it'll be the responsibility of the operator to mount the file via `Prometheus.ConfigMaps`. The operator is not responsible for the SD file.

Author: I realize the confusion now as I referenced `SecretOrConfigMap` in the proposal:

```yaml
files:
  - <SecretOrConfigMap>[] # https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/blob/e4e27052f57040f073c6c1e4aedaecaaec77d170/pkg/apis/monitoring/v1/types.go#L1644
refresh_interval: 5m
```

Updating the document to reflect what I just said.

Author: Done in https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/pull/5279/commits/9f1cd504392ffd1cda5f05f0c5fe1b64f99dbc3a, @simonpasquier @paulfantom sorry for the confusion there and thanks for the thorough review, let me know what you think with this change :)

```yaml
files:
  - <SecretOrConfigMap>[] # https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/blob/e4e27052f57040f073c6c1e4aedaecaaec77d170/pkg/apis/monitoring/v1/types.go#L1644

> refresh_interval: 5m

Reviewer: ```suggestion
refreshInterval: 5m
```

```

* `httpSDConfig`:

```yaml
url: http://localhost:1234

> refresh_interval: 60s

Reviewer: ```suggestion
refreshInterval: 60s
```

## Audience

* Users who serve Prometheus as a service and want to have their customers autonomous in defining scrape configs
* Users who want to manage scrape configs the same way as for services running within the Kubernetes cluster
* Users who want a supported Kubernetes way of scraping targets outside the Kubernetes cluster

# Non-Goals

* This proposal doesn't aim at covering all the fields in
  [`<scrape_config>`](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/#scrape_config).
  Specifically, no service discovery other than `static_configs` or `file_sd_configs` should be implemented at first.
* Refactoring of the other CRDs is not in scope for the first version

# How

As described by
[@aulig in #2787](https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/issues/2787#issuecomment-559776221), we
will create a new ScrapeConfig CRD, this new CRD will act the same as the other CRDs and append scrape configurations to
the configuration. Usage of ScrapeConfig doesn't exclude the use of the other CRDs, they are not mutually exclusive.
`ScrapeConfig` will allow for any scraping configuration, while the other CRDs provide sane defaults. This will allow

> for isolated testing of the new `ScrapeConfig` CRD.

Author: Added to the proposal

```mermaid
graph TD;
ServiceMonitor --> prometheusConfig
PodMonitor --> prometheusConfig
ScrapeConfig --> prometheusConfig
prometheusConfig
```

Using a pseudo custom resource definition, we should have the following:

```yaml
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: ScrapeConfig
metadata:
  name: my-scrape-config
  namespace: system-monitoring
  labels:
    test: value
spec:
  staticConfigs:

>     - <StaticConfig>[] # new resource

Reviewer 3: nit: just making it consistent 
```suggestion
    - <staticConfig>[] # new resource
```

  fileSDConfigs:
    - <fileSDConfig>[] # new resource
  httpSDConfigs:
    - <httpSDConfig>[] # new resource

>   relabelConfigs:

Author: I'd rather use the native names but consistency is important, I've updated the proposal with that name.

>     - <RelabelConfig>[] # https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/blob/e4e27052f57040f073c6c1e4aedaecaaec77d170/pkg/apis/monitoring/v1/types.go#L1150

Reviewer 3: nit: just making it consistent
```suggestion
    - <relabelConfig>[] # https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/blob/e4e27052f57040f073c6c1e4aedaecaaec77d170/pkg/apis/monitoring/v1/types.go#L1150
```

  metricsPath: /metrics

> ```

Reviewer: I assume that you didn't want to list all the fields but we intend to support all the scrape config fields (apart from the SD mechanisms which are currently out of scope)?

Author: Eventually yes, I leave this to the implementation. For instance, on the `http_sd_config`, we might not have OAuth2.0 right away but it could be implemented at a later stage.

Author: Added more to the proposal in that regard

Reviewer: :+1:

the operator to generate scrape configuration.

## Pitfalls of the current solution

Using `additionalScrapeConfig` comes with drawbacks:

* Teams have to build an infrastructure to add scrape rules in a centralized manner, which creates a bottleneck since a
  single team becomes responsible for the configuration
* There is no input validation, which can lead to an invalid prometheus configuration

# Goals

* Provide a way for users to self-service adding scrape targets
* Consolidate the scrape configuration generation logic in a central point for other resources to use

## Audience

* Users who serve Prometheus as a service and want to have their customers autonomous in defining scrape configs
* Users who want to manage scrape configs the same way as for services running within the Kubernetes cluster
* Users who want a supported Kubernetes way of scraping targets outside the Kubernetes cluster

# Non-Goals

* This proposal doesn't aim at covering all the fields in
  [`<scrape_config>`](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/#scrape_config).

>   Specifically, no service discovery other than `static_configs` or `file_sd_configs` should be implemented at first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Specifically, it focuses first on `static_configs`, `file_sd_configs`  and `http_sd_configs`.
```

  httpSDConfigs:
    - <httpSDConfig>[] # new resource
  relabelings: # relabel_configs
    - <RelabelConfig>[] # https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/blob/e4e27052f57040f073c6c1e4aedaecaaec77d170/pkg/apis/monitoring/v1/types.go#L1150
  metricsPath: /metrics
```

with the following new resources:

* `staticConfig`

```yaml
targets:
  - target:9100
labels:
  labelA: placeholder
```

* `fileSDConfig`:

```yaml
files:
  # Files here are string referencing a file existing in the Prometheus Pod. prometheus-operator is not responsible for
  # these SD files. The operator should use Prometheus.ConfigMaps to mount these files in the pods and have them usable
  # by ScrapeConfig. No validation on the content of the SD files is expected from prometheus-operator.
  - /etc/prometheus/configmaps/inventory/file.json
refreshInterval: 5m
```

* `httpSDConfig`:

```yaml
url: http://localhost:1234
refreshInterval: 60s
```

This example doesn't list all the fields that are offered by prometheus. The implementation of all the fields will be
done in an iterative process and as such, the expectation is not for all of them to be implemented in the first version.

> Also, to help selecting `ScrapeConfig`, a new field will be added to the Prometheus CRD, same as for `ServiceMontor` or
> `PodMonitor`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, to help selecting `ScrapeConfig`, a new field will be added to the Prometheus CRD, same as for `ServiceMonitor` , 
`PodMonitor` and `Probe` objects:
```

# ScrapeConfig CRD
* Owners:
  * [xiu](https://github.com/xiu)
* Related Tickets:
  * [#2787](https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/issues/2787)
  * [#3447](https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/issues/3447)
* Other docs:
  * n/a

This document aims at creating a lower level `ScrapeConfig` Custom Resource that defines additional scrape configurations the kubernetes way.

# Why

> prometheus-operator misses a way to scrape external targets using CRD. Users have either been abusing the `Probe` CRD (#3447) or `additionalScrapeConfig` to do so.

Author: Thanks! What do you think about:
> prometheus-operator misses a way to scrape external targets using CRD. Users have either been abusing the `Probe` CRD (#3447) or `additionalScrapeConfig` to do so. 
> We currently have several CRDs generating scrape configurations. With this proposition of creating a new `ScrapeConfig` CRD, we also have an interest in consolidating the logic to generate scrape configuration in one place by having all the other CRDs generate `ScrapeConfig` resources instead.

> prometheus-operator misses a way to scrape external targets using CRD. Users have either been abusing the `Probe` CRD (#3447) or `additionalScrapeConfig` to do so.

Reviewer 3: Changed it slightly but feel free to use which one of the texts looks better to you :) 

> prometheus-operator misses a way to scrape external targets using CRD. Users have either been abusing the Probe CRD (https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/issues/3447) or additionalScrapeConfig to do so.
Furthermore, currently, there is a lot of code duplication due to the operator supporting several CRDs that generate scrape configurations. With the new ScrapeConfig CRD, it would be possible to consolidate some of that logic, where the other `*Monitor` CRDs could be migrated so that they create a ScrapeConfig resource that would ultimately be used by the operator to generate scrape configuration.

## Pitfalls of the current solution

> Using `additionalScrapeConfig` comes with drawbacks:

Author: Do you have a reference to an issue? I'd love to have a bit more context on this one to make sure I understand it properly.

> Using `additionalScrapeConfig` comes with drawbacks:

Reviewer 3: I took that from the first issue you have linked, it's in the first 3 comments https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/issues/2787

> Using `additionalScrapeConfig` comes with drawbacks:

Author: Had a chat with @JoaoBraveCoding: this usecase needs `kubernetes_sd_config` to work with `ScrapeConfig`, this is out of scope for this first version but we should be able to add it easily once the CRD is in place. The alternative for this usecase is still to use `additionalScrapeConfigs`.

* it becomes a bottleneck as teams have to build an infrastructure to add scrape rules in a centralized manner, which creates a bottleneck since a team becomes responsible for the configuration
* there is no input validation, which can lead to an invalid prometheus configuration

# Goals

> * Provide a way for users to self-service adding scrape targets

Author: What do you think of:
> # Goals
> * Provide a way for users to self-service adding scrape targets
> * Consolidate the scrape configuration generation logic in a central point for other resources to use

> * Provide a way for users to self-service adding scrape targets

Reviewer 3: Sounds good 👍

## Audience
* Users who serve prometheus as a service and want to have their customers autonomous in defining scrape configs
* Users who want to manage scrape configs the same way as for services runnings within the kubernetes cluster

# Non-Goals
* this proposal doesn't aim at covering all the fields in [`<scrape_config>`](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/#scrape_config). Specifically, no service discovery other than `static_configs` or `file_sd_configs` should be implemented at first.
* refactoring of the other CRDs is not in scope for the first version

> # How

Author: Done, let me know what you think, it's pretty simple and potentially naive.

* Users who want to manage scrape configs the same way as for services runnings within the kubernetes cluster

# Non-Goals
* this proposal doesn't aim at covering all the fields in [`<scrape_config>`](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/#scrape_config). Specifically, no service discovery other than `static_configs` or `file_sd_configs` should be implemented at first.
* refactoring of the other CRDs is not in scope for the first version

# How

As described by [@aulig in #2787](https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/issues/2787#issuecomment-559776221), we will create a new `ScrapeConfig` CRD, this config will act the same as the other CRDs and append scrape configurations to the configuration. `ScrapeConfig` will allow for any scraping configuration, while the other CRDs provide sane defaults. This will allow for isolated testing of the new `ScrapeConfig` CRD.

```mermaid
graph TD;
    ServiceMonitor-->prometheusConfig
    PodMonitor-->prometheusConfig
    ScrapeConfig-->prometheusConfig
    prometheusConfig
```

Using a pseudo custom resource definition, we should have the following:

> ```yaml

Reviewer 3: I was more thinking about it in golang 😅 but up to you

```golang
// Scrape Config defines a prometheus scrape_config.
type ScrapeConfig struct {
	metav1.TypeMeta   `json:",inline"`
	metav1.ObjectMeta `json:"metadata,omitempty"`
	// Specification of the desired scrape configuration More info:
	// https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/api-conventions.md#spec-and-status
	Spec ScrapeConfigSpec `json:"spec"`
}

// ScrapeConfigSpec is a specification of the desired behavior of the ScrapeConfig. More info:
// https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/api-conventions.md#spec-and-status
// +k8s:openapi-gen=true
type ScrapeConfigSpec struct {
         // The list of static configs
        StaticConfigs  []StaticConfig `json:"staticConfigs,omitempty"`
         // The list of file service discovery configs
        FileSDConfigs []SecretOrConfigMap `json:"fileSDConfig,omitempty"`
        // The list of relabel configurations.
        RelabelConfigs []RelableConfig `json:"reliableConfig,omitempty"`
}

// +k8s:openapi-gen=true
type StaticConfig {
         Targets []string `json:"targets"`
         Labels map[string]string `json:"labels,omitempty"`
}

// Already exists
type SecretOrConfigMap 

// Already exists
type RelabelConfigs
```

I'm not sure if I'm missing something

Author: Right, I didn't want to be too strict in the definition as that definition might change as we go about implementing it. @simonpasquier mentioned something about not having the definition in the proposal in the contributor office hours.

Reviewer: I'm fine with a raw YAML version here. The details can be discussed in pull requests.
